My name is Zack. I'm a
Software Engineer on
the security team in
Google Workspace.
I have non-traditional
background.
When I graduated
college, I originally
thought that I would pursue law,
but I was accepted and
I decided not to go.
Instead, I joined
Google in recruiting.
Through that work, I
did a little bit of
strategy work where
I taught myself
web scraping and I
really liked it, so
I took one of
Google's internal training
courses that helped me
move from recruiting to
software engineering.
Processes and playbooks are
documentation that software
engineers and other people at
Google use to
determine how we can
respond to things that happen.
Whether that's a security
or privacy incident,
whether that's an active attack,
we have sets of guidelines or
algorithms that we
use to determine
the best course of action
to make sure that we manage
people's data and security well.
I'm relatively new
to cybersecurity.
I've been a software engineer
here for about two years,
and I don't have
enough knowledge
to be able to respond to
every single thing that could
possibly come my way when I'm on
call or when I'm helping
resolve a vulnerability.
The playbooks are
super important
to people like me and
other folks who are
joining the industry new
because they allow you to solve
the problem with the experience
of a much more
experienced person,
basically decades
of experience in
your own resolution
because you can
rely on this playbook and
other people's advice.
The kind of things that we use
playbooks for our open attacks,
privacy incidents, data leaks,
denial of service attacks,
service alerts, and others.
When I first started
out at Google,
my first task on
the security team
was to fix an externally
reported vulnerability.
That means some
security researcher
out in the wild was playing with
our app and found
something that could
potentially leak
our user's data.
When I received that,
it was my first
task on the team.
Looking back on it, it's
a relatively easy
thing to solve,
but it felt really
overwhelming at the time.
But when we receive a
vulnerability report,
it comes with
remediation guidance.
There were steps in
the bug that was sent
to me saying this
is the things that we
think that you should do.
The things that I would say to
somebody who's interested
in starting out in
cybersecurity is
talk to as
many people in the
industry as you can.
You'll learn about
what the job is like.
the skills that you
need to get yourself there.
If that's something that
you're interested in,
you'll learn about
open jobs and roles,
what it's like to work
at different companies.
I wish people had told
me when I graduated
college that what these
jobs are really like.
I thought that coding
would be heads down,
typing away at a computer and
a dark office for
12 hours a day.
But it's not like that at all.
50% is communicating with
other people and reviewing
designs and talking about ideas.
That's really compelling and I
think if somebody had said that
to me at the beginning of my
career would have been
totally different.
Some teams come in
and out of fashion,
but security is ever-present.
It's really important now it's
only getting more important.
There's a certain amount
of security that comes
with being in a security team.
Definitely, a good place to be.